"LAMMPS WWW Site"_lws - "LAMMPS Documentation"_ld - "LAMMPS Commands"_lc :c

:link(lws,http://lammps.sandia.gov)
:link(ld,Manual.html)
:link(lc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

create_atoms command :h3

[Syntax:]

create_atoms type region-ID :pre

type = atom type (1-N) of atoms to create on a lattice
region-ID = ID of region each atom will belong to (optional) :ul

[Examples:]

create_atoms 1 regsphere
create_atoms 3 :pre

[Description:]

This command creates atoms on a lattice as an alternative to reading
in their coordinates via a "read_data"_read_data.html or
"read_restart"_read_restart.html command.  A simulation box must
already exist, which is created with the "create_box"_create_box.html
command.

Before using this command, a lattice must be defined using the
"lattice"_lattice.html command.  If a region is not specified, the
create_atoms command fills the entire simulation box with atoms on the
lattice.  If a region is specified, then the geometric volume is
filled that is inside the simulation box and is also consistent with
the region volume.

The {create_atoms} command can be used multiple times with different
lattice orientations to create grain boundaries.  Used in conjunction
with the "delete_atoms"_delete_atoms.html command, reasonably complex
geometries can be created.  The {create_atoms} command can also be
used to add atoms to a system previously read in from a data or
restart file.  In all these cases, care should be taken to insure that
new atoms do not overlap existing atoms inappropriately.

Created atoms are assigned the specified atom type and a velocity of
0.0.

[Restrictions:]

An "atom_style"_atom_style.html and "lattice"_lattice.html must be
previously defined to use this command.

[Related commands:]

"lattice"_lattice.html, "orient"_orient.html, "origin"_origin.html,
"region"_region.html, "create_box"_create_box.html,
"read_data"_read_data.html, "read_restart"_read_restart.html

[Default:] none
