"LAMMPS WWW Site"_lws - "LAMMPS Documentation"_ld - "LAMMPS Commands"_lc :c

:link(lws,http://lammps.sandia.gov)
:link(ld,Manual.html)
:link(lc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

kspace_modify command :h3

[Syntax:]

kspace_modify keyword value ... :pre

one or more keyword/value pairs may be listed :ulb,l
keyword = {mesh} or {order} or {gewald} or {slab} :l
  {mesh} value = x y z
    x,y,z = PPPM FFT grid size in each dimension
  {order} value = N
    N = grid extent of Gaussian for PPPM mapping of each charge
  {gewald} value = r
    r = PPPM G-ewald parameter
  {slab} value = volfactor
    volfactor = ratio of the total extended volume used in the
      2d approximation compared with the volume of the simulation domain :pre
:ule

[Examples:]

kspace_modify mesh 24 24 30 order 6
kspace_modify slab 3.0 :pre

[Description:]

Set parameters used by the kspace solvers defined by the
"kspace_style"_kspace_style.html command.  Not all parameters are
relevant to all kspace styles.

The {mesh} keyword sets the 3d FFT grid size for kspace style pppm.
Each dimension must be factorizable into powers of 2, 3, and 5.  When
this option is not set, the PPPM solver chooses its own grid size,
consistent with the user-specified accuracy and pairwise cutoff.
Values for x,y,z of 0,0,0 unset the option.

The {order} keyword determines how many grid spacings an atom's charge
extends when it is mapped to the FFT grid in kspace style pppm.  The
default for this parameter is 5, which means each charge spans 5 grid
cells in each dimension.

The {gewald} keyword sets the value of the PPPM G-ewald parameter.
Without this setting, LAMMPS chooses the parameter automatically as a
function of cutoff, precision, grid spacing, etc.  This means it can
vary from one simulation to the next which may not be desirable for
matching a KSpace solver to a pre-tabulated pairwise potential.  This
setting can also be useful if PPPM fails to choose a good grid spacing
and G-ewald parameter automatically.  If the value is set to 0.0,
LAMMPS will choose the G-ewald parameter automatically.

The {slab} keyword allows an Ewald or PPPM solver to be used for a
systems that are periodic in x,y but non-periodic in z - a
"boundary"_boundary.html setting of "boundary p p f".  This is done by
treating the system as if it were periodic in z, but inserting empty
volume between atom slabs and removing dipole inter-slab interactions
so that slab-slab interactions are effectively turned off.  The
volfactor value sets the ratio of the extended dimension in z divided
by the actual dimension in z.  The recommended value is 3.0.  A larger
value is inefficient; a smaller value introduces unwanted slab-slab
interactions.  The use of fixed boundaries in z means that the user
must prevent particle migration beyond the initial z-bounds, typically
by providing a wall-style fix.

[Restrictions:] none

[Related commands:]

"kspace_style"_kspace_style.html, "boundary"_boundary.html

[Default:]

The option defaults are mesh = 0 0 0, order = 5, gewald = 0.0, and
slab = 1.0.
