"LAMMPS WWW Site"_lws - "LAMMPS Documentation"_ld - "LAMMPS Commands"_lc :c

:link(lws,http://lammps.sandia.gov)
:link(ld,Manual.html)
:link(lc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

lattice command :h3

[Syntax:]

lattice style value :pre

style = {none} or {sc} or {bcc} or {fcc} or {sq} or {sq2} or {hex} or {diamond} :ulb,l
  {none} value = none
  for all other styles:
    value = reduced density (for LJ units)
    value = cubic lattice constant in Angstroms (for real or metal units) :pre
:ule

[Examples:]

lattice fcc 3.52
lattice hex 0.85
lattice none :pre

[Description:]

Define a lattice type and lattice constant.  This is required before
using a commands that (optionally) use the lattice, such as
"create_atoms"_create_atoms.html or "region"_region.html.  The lattice
type must be consistent with the dimension of the simulation - see the
"dimension"_dimension.html command.  Styles {sc} or {bcc} or {fcc} or
{diamond} are for 3d problems.  Styles {sq} or {sq2} or {hex} are for
2d problems.  Lattices of style {fcc}, {bcc}, {hex}, or {diamond} are
described in any solid-state physics text.  A {sc} lattice is simple
cubic, with atoms at the corners of a cube.  A {sq} lattice is square
with atoms at the corners of a square.  A {sq2} lattice is a {sq}
lattice with an additional atom at the center of the square.

For unit style {real} or {metal}, the specified value is the cubic
lattice constant in Angstroms.  For unit style {lj}, the value is the
reduced density (rho*) which LAMMPS converts into a cubic lattice
constant.  For 3d problems, the relationship "rho* = rho sigma^3" is
used for the conversion, where rho = N/V with V = the volume of the
cubic cell and N = 4 for {fcc}, 2 for {bcc}, 1 for {sc}, and 8 for
{diamond} lattices.  For 2d problems, the relationship "rho* = rho
sigma^2" is used for the conversion, where N = 2 for {sq2} or {hex}
and 1 for {sq}.  In the hex case, the unit cell is actually
rectangular; it is extended by a factor of sqrt(3) in the y-dimension.

The command "lattice none" can be used to turn off the lattice
setting.  Any command that attempts to use a lattice constant will
then generate an error.

[Restrictions:] none

[Related commands:]

"dimension"_dimension.html, "orient"_orient.html,
"origin"_origin.html, "create_atoms"_create_atoms.html,
"region"_region.html

[Default:]

lattice none :pre
